All namespace names in your project are based on a _root namespace_. Visual Studio assigns your project name as the default root namespace for all code in your project. For example, if your project is named `Payroll`, its programming elements belong to namespace `Payroll`. If you declare `Namespace funding`, the full name of that namespace is `Payroll.funding`.

If you want to specify an existing namespace in a `Namespace` statement, such as in the generic list class example, you can set your root namespace to a null value. To do this, click **Project Properties** from the **Project** menu and then clear the **Root namespace** entry so that the box is empty. If you did not do this in the generic list class example, the Visual Basic compiler would take `System.Collections.Generic` as a new namespace within project `Payroll`, with the full name of `Payroll.System.Collections.Generic`.

Alternatively, you can use the `Global` keyword to refer to elements of namespaces defined outside your project. Doing so lets you retain your project name as the root namespace. This reduces the chance of unintentionally merging your programming elements together with those of existing namespaces. For more information, see the "Global Keyword in Fully Qualified Names" section in [Namespaces in Visual Basic](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/visual-basic/programming-guide/program-structure/namespaces).

The `Global` keyword can also be used in a Namespace statement. This lets you define a namespace out of the root namespace of your project. For more information, see the "Global Keyword in Namespace Statements" section in [Namespaces in Visual Basic](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/visual-basic/programming-guide/program-structure/namespaces).

**Troubleshooting.** The root namespace can lead to unexpected concatenations of namespace names. If you make reference to namespaces defined outside your project, the Visual Basic compiler can construe them as nested namespaces in the root namespace. In such a case, the compiler does not recognize any types that have been already defined in the external namespaces. To avoid this, either set your root namespace to a null value as described in "Root Namespace," or use the `Global` keyword to access elements of external namespaces.