- The .NET garbage collector (GC) divides objects up into small and large objects. When an object is large, some of its attributes become more significant than if the object is small. For instance, compacting it—that is, copying it in memory elsewhere on the heap—can be expensive. Because of this, the garbage collector places large objects on the large object heap (LOH).
- **If an object is greater than or equal to 85,000 bytes in size, it's considered a large object.** This number was determined by performance tuning. When an object allocation request is for 85,000 or more bytes, the runtime allocates it on the large object heap.
- Newly allocated objects form a new generation of objects and are implicitly generation 0 collections. However, if they are large objects, they go on the large object heap (LOH), which is sometimes referred to as generation 3. Generation 3 is a physical generation that's logically collected as part of generation 2.
- Large objects belong to generation 2 because they are collected only during a generation 2 collection. When a generation is collected, all its younger generation(s) are also collected. For example, when a generation 1 GC happens, both generation 1 and 0 are collected. And when a generation 2 GC happens, the whole heap is collected. For this reason, a generation 2 GC is also called a _full GC_.
```ad-note
User code can only allocate in generation 0 (small objects) or the LOH (large objects). Only the GC can "allocate" objects in generation 1 (by promoting survivors from generation 0) and generation 2 (by promoting survivors from generation 1).
```