- In mathematics, an **operation** is a process involving zero or more input values (called **operands**) that produces a new value (called an _output value_). The specific operation to be performed is denoted by a symbol called an **operator**.
- The number of operands that an operator takes as input is called the operator’s **arity**. Operators in C++ come in four different arities:
	- **Unary** operators act on one operand. An example of a unary operator is the `-` operator. For example, given `-5`, `operator-` takes literal operand `5` and flips its sign to produce new output value `-5`.
	- **Binary** operators act on two operands (often called _left_ and _right_, as the left operand appears on the left side of the operator, and the right operand appears on the right side of the operator). An example of a binary operator is the `+` operator. For example, given `3 + 4`, `operator+` takes the left operand `3` and the right operand `4` and applies mathematical addition to produce new output value `7`. The insertion (`<<`) and extraction (`>>`) operators are binary operators, taking `std::cout` or `std::cin` on the left side, and the value to output or variable to input to on the right side.
	- **Ternary** operators act on three operands. There is only one of these in C++ (the conditional operator), which we’ll cover later.
	- **Nullary** operators act on zero operands. There is also only one of these in C++ (the throw operator), which we’ll also cover later.
---
- An operator (or function) that has some observable effect beyond producing a return value is said to have a **side effect**. For example, when `x = 5` is evaluated, the assignment operator has the side effect of assigning the value `5` to variable `x`. The changed value of `x` is observable (e.g. by printing the value of `x`) even after the operator has finished executing. `std::cout << 5` has the side effect of printing `5` to the console. We can observe the fact that `5` has been printed to the console even after `std::cout << 5` has finished executing.
- For the operators we call primarily for their side effects (e.g. `operator=` or `operator<<`), it’s not always obvious what return values they produce (if any). For example, what return value would you expect `x = 5` to have?
- Both `operator=` and `operator<<` (when used to output values to the console) return their left operand. Thus, `x = 5` returns `x`, and `std::cout << 5` returns `std::cout`. This is done so that these operators can be chained.
	- For example, `x = y = 5` evaluates as `x = (y = 5)`. First `y = 5` assigns `5` to `y`. This operation then returns `y`, which can then be assigned to `x`.
	- `std::cout << "Hello " << "world!"` evaluates as `(std::cout << "Hello ") << "world!"`. This first prints `"Hello "` to the console. This operation returns `std::cout`, which can then be used to print `"world!"` to the console as well.